docs/docs.md, before:

# Docs

## Installation

### Dependencies

In order to use the **`edamame`** command line interface or graphical user interface tools, a user must first create an [**AWS Account**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/SetUp/latest/UserGuide/setup-prereqs-instructions.html) and install the following dependencies:

- [**AWS Command Line Interface**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html): command line tool for managing AWS services.
- [**kubectl**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl): command line tool for working with Kubernetes clusters (ensure you have verson 1.14 or greater which supports Kustomization files).
- [**eksctl**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/eksctl.html): command line tool for working with EKS clusters.
- [**Make**](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/): a build automation tool used to build executable programs and libraries from source code.
- [**Go**](https://go.dev/doc/install): the programming language used by K6.
- [**Helm**](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/): a package manager for Kubernetes.

Subsequently, a user must ensure that the _AWS Command Line Interface_ is configured locally. This can be achieved by executing `aws configure` from the command line and passing in the following necessary credentials:

- AWS Access Key ID
- AWS Secret Access Key
- Default region

For more details on deriving the above credentials, please see the [**official docs**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-quickstart.html).

### Final Installation Steps

Once all the dependencies from the prior section have been installed, a user should execute the final installation steps:

- Clone the **`edamame`** github repository: `git clone git@github.com:edamame-load-test/edamame.git`
- Navigate to the root directory, and execute the commands:
  - `npm install`
  - `npm link`

## CLI

### edamame init

Before conducting any load tests with Edamame, a user must first create and configure the necessary AWS infrastructure by executing the command `edamame init`. If a user wants to specify certain availability zones to use within their cluster instead of all of the default zones within their configured AWS region, they can pass a list of desired zones to the command using the --zones flag like so: `edamame init --zones us-west-2a,us-west-2b`. The most time-consuming part of this process is the provisioning of an EKS Cluster, which can take up to approximately 20 minutes. The terminal will provide status updates to the user throughout this installation and configuration process.

> **Note:**
> Edamame init provisions AWS infrastructure on a user's AWS account.

Terminal Output:

```
[09:15:51:909] ℹ Creating Edamame cluster... (this may take up to 20 minutes)
[09:34:27:582] ✔ Successfully created Edamame cluster.
[09:34:27:583] ℹ Configuring EBS credentials...
[09:35:14:030] ✔ Successfully configured EBS credentials.
[09:35:14:030] ℹ Setting up AWS Load Balancer Controller...
[09:36:16:613] ✔ Set up AWS Load Balancer Controller.
[09:36:17:446] ℹ Deploying Grafana, Postgres, & K6 Operator...
[09:36:49:854] ✔ Cluster configured. Welcome to Edamame!
```

### edamame grafana --start

To establish secure local access to the Grafana dashboard, which allows a user to visualize and analyze the results of their load tests, execute the command `edamame grafana --start`. This command is usually run before conducting any load tests, so that a user can update their Grafana username and password login credentials (which by default are `admin` and `admin`), create a custom dashboard for viewing specific data that will be emitted during a load test, or navigate to the default HTTP and WebSockets data dashboard, and see all load test data arrive in near real-time.

Terminal Output:

```
[12:00:32:022] ℹ Configuring local access to grafana dashboard...
[12:01:02:671] ✔ Please find your Grafana dashboard at: http://localhost:3000
```

### edamame run

Before starting a load test, a user must first write a k6 test script that defines the number of virtual users to be simulated and their behavior. Subsequently, a user can begin a load test by executing the command `edamame run` and providing the relative path to the k6 test script, and optionally the desired name and desired number of virtual users per pod. If a name is not provided, a unique identifier will be generated and assigned to the test. Additionally, if a specific number of virtual users per pod isn't defined, the default configuration of 20,000 virtual users per pod will be used.

To minimize a user's AWS infrastructure costs, Edamame only initializes and maintains load generating resources while a test is being executed. Before a test can run, Edamame needs to initialize these load generator resources, which can take a moment. The terminal will provide status updates to the user and inform them when the test starts. The terminal will also subsequently notify the user when a test has completed and when all the load generating resources are removed.

Full Command with Arguments:

```
 edamame run --file {/path/to/test.js} --name "{desired name}" --vus-per-pod <num_vus>
```

Terminal Output:

```
[07:24:33:021] ℹ Initializing load test...
[07:24:33:027] ✔ Successfully initialized load test.
[07:24:33:027] ℹ Provisioning load test resources (2 generators)...
[07:25:11:079] ✔ Successfully provisioned load test resources.
[07:25:11:080] ℹ Running load test...
[07:28:12:527] ✔ Load test completed.
[07:28:12:527] ℹ Tearing down load generating resources.
[07:28:48:630] ✔ Successfully removed load generating resources from cluster.
```

### edamame stop

While analyzing the results of a load test in the Grafana dashboard, a user may decide that their system's performance has degraded to a point where they would like to end the current test. A user can stop an actively running test by executing `edamame stop`.

Terminal Output:

```
[01:05:48:074] ℹ Stopping current test...
[01:05:53:080] ✔ Stopped current test.
```

### edamame grafana --stop

When a user is done analyzing the results of the load test in Grafana, they can end their secure Grafana local access by executing the command `edamame grafana --stop`. This command will free up port 3000 for other processes to run on it.

Terminal Output:

```
[12:07:38:477] ℹ Stopping grafana
[12:07:38:774] ✔ Grafana dashboard has been removed
```

### edamame update

A user can update the current name of a test by executing `edamame update` and providing the current name and desired new name.

Full Command with Arguments:

```
 edamame update --current "{current test name}" --new "{new proposed name}"
```

Terminal Output:

```
[05:46:40:660] ℹ Updating test name from 'example' to '50k VUs'...
[05:46:41:442] ✔ Successfully updated test's name to: '50k VUs'
```

### edamame get --all

A user can view information about existing load tests by executing the command `edamame get --all`.

Terminal Output:

```
[07:27:37:430] ℹ Retrieving information about historical tests...
[07:27:39:705] ✔ Successfully retrieved historical test data. Test names are listed under (index).
┌─────────────────┬────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────┬─────────────┐
│     (index)     │         start time         │          end time          │   status    │
├─────────────────┼────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────┼─────────────┤
│     example     │ '2023-03-20T23:20:03.744Z' │            null            │  'running'  │
│     50K VUs     │ '2023-03-20T22:52:48.864Z' │ '2023-03-20T22:55:04.873Z' │ 'completed' │
└─────────────────┴────────────────────────────┴────────────────────────────┴─────────────┘
```

### edamame get --name

A user can view details about an individual test, including the test script contents, by executing `edamame get --name` and providing the test name.

Full Command:

```
 edamame get --name "{test name}"
```

Terminal Output:

```
[06:33:08:621] ℹ Retrieving details about the test named: 'example'...
[06:33:09:554] ✔ Successfully retrieved data about the test named: 'example.'
┌─────────┬────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────┬─────────────┐
│ (index) │         start time         │          end time          │   status    │
├─────────┼────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────┼─────────────┤
│ example │ '2023-03-20T22:52:48.864Z' │ '2023-03-20T22:55:04.873Z' │ 'completed' │
└─────────┴────────────────────────────┴────────────────────────────┴─────────────┘
                               Test script content:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"import http from ''k6/http'';
import { check } from ''k6'';

export const options = {
  scenarios: {
    shared_iter_scenario: {
      executor: \"shared-iterations\",
      vus: 10,
      iterations: 100,
      startTime: \"0s\",
    },
    per_vu_scenario: {
      executor: \"per-vu-iterations\",
      vus: 20,
      iterations: 10,
      startTime: \"10s\",
    },
  },
};

export default function () {
  const result = http.get(''https://test-api.k6.io/public/crocodiles/'');
  check(result, {
    ''http response status code is 200'': result.status === 200,
  });
}
"
```

### edamame delete

A user can delete a load test and all of its associated data from the database by executing `edamame delete` and providing the test name.

> **Warning:**
> This action is permanent. There is no way to recover any of the deleted data.

Full Command:

```
 edamame delete "{test name}"
```

Terminal Output:

```
[05:53:20:170] ℹ Deleting the test named: '40k VUs'...
[05:53:20:548] ✔ Deleted the test named: '40k VUs'...
```

### edamame teardown

If a user no longer wants or needs to run load tests and has no desire to retain any existing load test data, they can delete all existing load test data and AWS infrastructure by executing the command `edamame teardown`.

> **WARNING:**
> This action is permanent. All load test data will be deleted. To run a subsequent load test, a user will have to provision and configure new AWS infrastructure by executing `edamame init`.

Terminal Output:

```
[05:53:20:170] ℹ Tearing Down Edamame Cluster...
[05:53:20:548] ✔ Deleted Edamame Cluster
```

## React UI

### Establish Access

import Placeholder from './assets/logo-light-green.png';

If a user prefers to work in a web application user interface rather than a command line interface, they can initialize a React UI by executing the command `edamame dashboard --start` after they have successfully finished executing the command `edamame init`. This command will also configure secure local access to the Grafana dashboard.

Terminal Output:

```
$ edamame dashboard --start
[12:00:32:022] ℹ Configuring local access to grafana dashboard...
[12:01:02:671] ✔ Please find your Grafana dashboard at: http://localhost:3000
[12:00:32:022] ℹ Initializing your dashboard
[12:01:02:671] ℹ Installed packages for your backend
[12:00:32:022] ℹ Installed packages for your frontend
[12:00:32:022] ℹ Generated frontend build
[12:01:02:671] ✔ Your dashboard is now running at http://localhost:3001
```

From within the React UI, a user can upload a k6 test script, start a load test, view and delete information about existing load tests, access Grafana to visualize load test metrics, and delete all existing AWS infrastructure and data.

import Dashboard from '../static/img/react-dashboard.png';

<figure>
  <img src={Dashboard} alt="Image of Edamame's React graphical user interface"/>
  <figcaption align = "center" >
    Figure 1.0: Edamame's React UI
  </figcaption>
</figure>

### Terminate Access

Once a user has finished using the React UI, they can end the local access to both the React UI and the Grafana dashboard by executing the command `edamame dashboard --stop`. This command will free up ports 3000 and 3001 for other processes.

Terminal Output:

```
$ edamame dashboard --stop
[02:17:24:140] ℹ Stopping dashboard
[02:17:24:520] ✔ Dashboard has been removed
```

Commit message:

update docs to reflect archival feature
Co-authored-by: Albert Dorfman  <albertdorfman@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Ginni Pinckert <gcpinckert@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Luke Oguro <lukeoguro@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Rachel West <westrachel27@gmail.com>

docs/docs.md, after:

# Docs

## Installation

### Dependencies

In order to use the **`edamame`** command line interface or graphical user interface tools, a user must first create an [**AWS Account**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/SetUp/latest/UserGuide/setup-prereqs-instructions.html) and install the following dependencies:

- [**AWS Command Line Interface**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html): command line tool for managing AWS services.
- [**kubectl**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl): command line tool for working with Kubernetes clusters (ensure you have verson 1.14 or greater which supports Kustomization files).
- [**eksctl**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/eksctl.html): command line tool for working with EKS clusters.
- [**Make**](https://www.gnu.org/software/make/): a build automation tool used to build executable programs and libraries from source code.
- [**Go**](https://go.dev/doc/install): the programming language used by K6.
- [**Helm**](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/): a package manager for Kubernetes.

Subsequently, a user must ensure that the _AWS Command Line Interface_ is configured locally. This can be achieved by executing `aws configure` from the command line and passing in the following necessary credentials:

- AWS Access Key ID
- AWS Secret Access Key
- Default region

For more details on deriving the above credentials, please see the [**official docs**](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-quickstart.html).

### Final Installation Steps

Once all the dependencies from the prior section have been installed, a user should execute the final installation steps:

- Clone the **`edamame`** github repository: `git clone git@github.com:edamame-load-test/edamame.git`
- Navigate to the root directory, and execute the commands:
  - `npm install`
  - `npm link`

## CLI

### edamame init

Before conducting any load tests with Edamame, a user must first create and configure the necessary AWS infrastructure by executing the command `edamame init`. If a user wants to specify certain availability zones to use within their cluster instead of all of the default zones within their configured AWS region, they can pass a list of desired zones to the command using the --zones flag like so: `edamame init --zones us-west-2a,us-west-2b`. The most time-consuming part of this process is the provisioning of an EKS Cluster, which can take up to approximately 20 minutes. The terminal will provide status updates to the user throughout this installation and configuration process.

> **Note:**
> Edamame init provisions AWS infrastructure on a user's AWS account.

Terminal Output:

```
[09:15:51:909] ℹ Creating Edamame cluster... (this may take up to 20 minutes)
[09:34:27:582] ✔ Successfully created Edamame cluster.
[09:34:27:583] ℹ Configuring EBS credentials...
[09:35:14:030] ✔ Successfully configured EBS credentials.
[09:35:14:030] ℹ Setting up AWS Load Balancer Controller...
[09:36:16:613] ✔ Set up AWS Load Balancer Controller.
[09:36:17:446] ℹ Deploying Grafana, Postgres, & K6 Operator...
[09:36:49:854] ✔ Cluster configured. Welcome to Edamame!
```

### edamame grafana --start

To establish secure local access to the Grafana dashboard, which allows a user to visualize and analyze the results of their load tests, execute the command `edamame grafana --start`. This command is usually run before conducting any load tests, so that a user can update their Grafana username and password login credentials (which by default are `admin` and `admin`), create a custom dashboard for viewing specific data that will be emitted during a load test, or navigate to the default HTTP and WebSockets data dashboard, and see all load test data arrive in near real-time.

Terminal Output:

```
[12:00:32:022] ℹ Configuring local access to grafana dashboard...
[12:01:02:671] ✔ Please find your Grafana dashboard at: http://localhost:3000
```

### edamame run

Before starting a load test, a user must first write a k6 test script that defines the number of virtual users to be simulated and their behavior. Subsequently, a user can begin a load test by executing the command `edamame run` and providing the relative path to the k6 test script, and optionally the desired name and desired number of virtual users per pod. If a name is not provided, a unique identifier will be generated and assigned to the test. Additionally, if a specific number of virtual users per pod isn't defined, the default configuration of 20,000 virtual users per pod will be used.

To minimize a user's AWS infrastructure costs, Edamame only initializes and maintains load generating resources while a test is being executed. Before a test can run, Edamame needs to initialize these load generator resources, which can take a moment. The terminal will provide status updates to the user and inform them when the test starts. The terminal will also subsequently notify the user when a test has completed and when all the load generating resources are removed.

Full Command with Arguments:

```
 edamame run --file {/path/to/test.js} --name "{desired name}" --vus-per-pod <num_vus>
```

Terminal Output:

```
[07:24:33:021] ℹ Initializing load test...
[07:24:33:027] ✔ Successfully initialized load test.
[07:24:33:027] ℹ Provisioning load test resources (2 generators)...
[07:25:11:079] ✔ Successfully provisioned load test resources.
[07:25:11:080] ℹ Running load test...
[07:28:12:527] ✔ Load test completed.
[07:28:12:527] ℹ Tearing down load generating resources.
[07:28:48:630] ✔ Successfully removed load generating resources from cluster.
```

### edamame stop

While analyzing the results of a load test in the Grafana dashboard, a user may decide that their system's performance has degraded to a point where they would like to end the current test. A user can stop an actively running test by executing `edamame stop`.

Terminal Output:

```
[01:05:48:074] ℹ Stopping current test...
[01:05:53:080] ✔ Stopped current test.
```

### edamame grafana --stop

When a user is done analyzing the results of the load test in Grafana, they can end their secure Grafana local access by executing the command `edamame grafana --stop`. This command will free up port 3000 for other processes to run on it.

Terminal Output:

```
[12:07:38:477] ℹ Stopping grafana
[12:07:38:774] ✔ Grafana dashboard has been removed
```

### edamame update

A user can update the current name of a test by executing `edamame update` and providing the current name and desired new name.

Full Command with Arguments:

```
 edamame update --current "{current test name}" --new "{new proposed name}"
```

Terminal Output:

```
[05:46:40:660] ℹ Updating test name from 'example' to '50k VUs'...
[05:46:41:442] ✔ Successfully updated test's name to: '50k VUs'
```

### edamame get --all

A user can view information about existing load tests by executing the command `edamame get --all`.

Terminal Output:

```
[07:27:37:430] ℹ Retrieving information about historical tests...
[07:27:39:705] ✔ Successfully retrieved historical test data. Test names are listed under (index).
┌─────────────────┬────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────┬─────────────┐
│     (index)     │         start time         │          end time          │   status    │
├─────────────────┼────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────┼─────────────┤
│     example     │ '2023-03-20T23:20:03.744Z' │            null            │  'running'  │
│     50K VUs     │ '2023-03-20T22:52:48.864Z' │ '2023-03-20T22:55:04.873Z' │ 'completed' │
└─────────────────┴────────────────────────────┴────────────────────────────┴─────────────┘
```

### edamame get --name

A user can view details about an individual test, including the test script contents, by executing `edamame get --name` and providing the test name.

Full Command:

```
 edamame get --name "{test name}"
```

Terminal Output:

```
[06:33:08:621] ℹ Retrieving details about the test named: 'example'...
[06:33:09:554] ✔ Successfully retrieved data about the test named: 'example.'
┌─────────┬────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────┬─────────────┐
│ (index) │         start time         │          end time          │   status    │
├─────────┼────────────────────────────┼────────────────────────────┼─────────────┤
│ example │ '2023-03-20T22:52:48.864Z' │ '2023-03-20T22:55:04.873Z' │ 'completed' │
└─────────┴────────────────────────────┴────────────────────────────┴─────────────┘
                               Test script content:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"import http from ''k6/http'';
import { check } from ''k6'';

export const options = {
  scenarios: {
    shared_iter_scenario: {
      executor: \"shared-iterations\",
      vus: 10,
      iterations: 100,
      startTime: \"0s\",
    },
    per_vu_scenario: {
      executor: \"per-vu-iterations\",
      vus: 20,
      iterations: 10,
      startTime: \"10s\",
    },
  },
};

export default function () {
  const result = http.get(''https://test-api.k6.io/public/crocodiles/'');
  check(result, {
    ''http response status code is 200'': result.status === 200,
  });
}
"
```

### edamame delete

A user can delete a load test and all of its associated data from the database by executing `edamame delete` and providing the test name.

> **Warning:**
> This action is permanent. There is no way to recover any of the deleted data.

Full Command:

```
 edamame delete "{test name}"
```

Terminal Output:

```
[05:53:20:170] ℹ Deleting the test named: '40k VUs'...
[05:53:20:548] ✔ Deleted the test named: '40k VUs'...
```

### edamame archive

If a user wants or needs to temporarily teardown their Edamame cluster, they can persist all their historical load test data beyond the life of their AWS EKS Cluster by executing `edamame archive --all`. This command uploads data associated with each individual test as compressed file objects with the storage class Standard Infrequent Access into an AWS S3 Bucket. If a user wants to archive only the data associated with one historical test, then they can execute `edamame archive --name testName` and replace testName with the name of the test that they would like to archive. The files are archived as objects with Standard Infrequent Access, because this tier provides quick retrieval access and cheap storage relative to some of the other AWS storage class categories. Edamame currently doesn't offer the flexibility to change the storage class of these file uploads via the CLI. However, if a user plans to have this archived data in cold storage for a long time and wants a cheaper storage class option, then they can use Amazon S3 Lifecycle to update the storage class to one of the Glacier categories.

### edamame delete-from-archive

If a user decides they no longer need the data associated with all or one of their historical load tests that currently exists as an object in their AWS S3 Bucket, then they can execute `edamame delete-from-archive --all` or `edamame delete-from-archive --name testName` to delete all the load test data stored in AWS S3 or the data associated with one historical load test.

### edamame teardown

If a user no longer wants or needs to run load tests and has no desire to retain any existing load test data, they can delete all existing load test data and AWS infrastructure by executing the command `edamame teardown`.

> **WARNING:**
> This action is permanent. All load test data will be deleted. To run a subsequent load test, a user will have to provision and configure new AWS infrastructure by executing `edamame init`.

Terminal Output:

```
[05:53:20:170] ℹ Tearing Down Edamame Cluster...
[05:53:20:548] ✔ Deleted Edamame Cluster
```

## React UI

### Establish Access

import Placeholder from './assets/logo-light-green.png';

If a user prefers to work in a web application user interface rather than a command line interface, they can initialize a React UI by executing the command `edamame dashboard --start` after they have successfully finished executing the command `edamame init`. This command will also configure secure local access to the Grafana dashboard.

Terminal Output:

```
$ edamame dashboard --start
[12:00:32:022] ℹ Configuring local access to grafana dashboard...
[12:01:02:671] ✔ Please find your Grafana dashboard at: http://localhost:3000
[12:00:32:022] ℹ Initializing your dashboard
[12:01:02:671] ℹ Installed packages for your backend
[12:00:32:022] ℹ Installed packages for your frontend
[12:00:32:022] ℹ Generated frontend build
[12:01:02:671] ✔ Your dashboard is now running at http://localhost:3001
```

From within the React UI, a user can upload a k6 test script, start a load test, view and delete information about existing load tests, access Grafana to visualize load test metrics, and delete all existing AWS infrastructure and data.

import Dashboard from '../static/img/react-dashboard.png';

<figure>
  <img src={Dashboard} alt="Image of Edamame's React graphical user interface"/>
  <figcaption align = "center" >
    Figure 1.0: Edamame's React UI
  </figcaption>
</figure>

### Terminate Access

Once a user has finished using the React UI, they can end the local access to both the React UI and the Grafana dashboard by executing the command `edamame dashboard --stop`. This command will free up ports 3000 and 3001 for other processes.

Terminal Output:

```
$ edamame dashboard --stop
[02:17:24:140] ℹ Stopping dashboard
[02:17:24:520] ✔ Dashboard has been removed
```
